Over the years, there were many sisters without standing faith.
Sister Matsui, she was one of them.
She was born in Japan in 1909.
Although she grew up in the Buddhist family, she had a thirst for Bible knowledge.
In 1918, the Spanish flu hit her area and she saw lots of coffins with dead bodies.
She and her elders sister both also caught the Spanish flu and a week later her sister died.
She wondered, why do people die and what happens to them at death?
In 1928, when Matsui was 19, her father arranged for her to marry Giso Ishi a jealous Buddhist.
Matsui was introduced to the truth in Osaka through the book The Heart of God.
That was given to her by a brother who lived in a neighboring house that belonged to the International Bible Students Association.
Matsui was baptized in March 1929 and her husband Giso was baptized a short time later.
In June 1939, when she was 30 years old, she and her husband were arrested and were separated from each other.
This certainly called for a faith.
She said that she nearly died when she was in solitary confinement for almost a year.
Matsui was released toward the end of 1944 and she was reunited with Giso after World War II ended.
Both she and her husband had remained faithful.
Let us now consider another encouraging example.
Right after World War II ended, far away from Japan in Estonia, Northeastern Europe,
Taylor Tom was introduced to the truth in April 1945 and was baptized in August 1946 at age 20.
She was arrested by the Communists on December 27, 1950, and sentenced to imprisonment.
She was sent to a slave labor camp in Russia, the infamous Wakuta camp, above the Arctic Circle,
and later to other prison camps, 250 miles or 400 kilometers southeast of Moscow.
The sisters continued to be spiritually minded.
They made miniature copies of the watchtower and put them inside bars of soap and re-sealed the soap.
This certainly called for a faith.
She did not have to serve for 13 years, but actually was released on May 4, 1956 after five and a half years.
The year after, she married Brother Lempid Tom.
However, the threat of searches and arrests continued until the preaching work was legalized in Estonia in 1991.
In the following video, note some other details regarding the lives of these two faithful women, Matsui Ishi and Ella Tom.
For nearly a year, I had been held in solitary confinement in a tiny filthy, bug-infested prison cell.
Five and a half years after my arrest, I was released.
If we truly rely on Jehovah, really love him and cry out in a heart for his help,
just as he did not forsake me, he will not forsake his servants.
They arrested me and took me in for questioning.
An interrogator invited me to sign a document stating that I would discontinue preaching.
I said, I would rather live in prison with my relationship with God and tact,
than be free and lose his approval.
My determination has been to heed the Bible admonition.
Trust in Jehovah and do good.
I have learned that doing this leads to receiving the requests of your heart.
How did the sisters Ishi and Tom show faith?
Please turn with me to Psalm 37.
Sister Ishi had faith that Jehovah would not abandon her, in line with Psalm 37, 25,
which reads,
I was once young and now I'm old, but I have not seen anyone righteous abandoned
nor his children looking for bread.
Her faith helped her to endure a difficult test of integrity.
She was arrested on June 21, 1939, and taken to a police station,
and put into a dark cell with suit hanging from the ceiling.
The after, she was transferred to another location and put into solitary confinement.
Her husband was also arrested, and she did not see him until the war had ended.
I nearly died in that cell, she said.
But she was exposed to another test too.
When interrogated, she found out from the officials that Junso Akashi,
the overseer of the Japan branch, had abandoned the truth.
Sister Ishi replied, Akashi is only an imperfect human.
He is no longer my brother.
Sister Ishi remained loyal.
Similarly, Sister Tom from Estonia refused to compromise or to abandon her faith.
She prayed and meditated on Bible principles in order to endure,
like Psalm 119, verses 97 and 98 say,
How I do love your law, I ponder over it all day long.
Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies because it is with me forever.
In 1949, Ella Tom was arrested by the communists.
They took her in for questioning.
She reports, forced to remove all my clothing and being watched by young police officers,
I felt humiliated.
Yet after I prayed to Jehovah, peace and calmness of heart came over me.
Next, I was put in a tiny cell where I could not even lie down.
I was taken out only for interrogations.
The officers would say, we are not asking you to deny the existence of God,
just stop your stupid preaching.
You can have a promising future and they would threaten,
quote, Do you want to live or do you want to die with your God on the fields of Siberia?
She said, For three days I was prevented from falling asleep between the repeated
interrogations. Meditation on Bible principles helped me to endure.
Finally, an interrogator invited me to sign a document stating that I would discontinue preaching.
I have given this matter much thought, I said.
And I would rather live in prison with my relationship with God intact than to be free
and lose his approval. At that interrogator shouted,
You fool, all of you will be arrested and sent to Siberia.
But she was unexpectedly set free at midnight.
However, was arrested again sometime later.
In the following dramatization, note how a brother shows faith like that of sister's issue and
as the world went from bad to worse, I dug deeper into God's word.
I wanted to stay strong like so many brothers and sisters in the past.
Those who remain faithful had no special abilities and were inconspicuous.
Surely all of us must always trust in Jehovah with all our heart.
I memorized scriptures.
I knew these words would build my faith and give me the strength I needed to face what was to come.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good. Reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah and you will grant you the desires of your heart.
We had to be more discreet, but we never stopped talking about God's word.
We had to face many difficulties, but with God's word embedded in our hearts,
we faithfully endure it to the end.
Build faith by meditating on Jehovah's goodness to his people and to you personally.
How can you imitate Rahab?
Take a firm stand for true worship, even if you have only a limited knowledge of the truth.
How to imitate Hannah?
Build faith by taking note of Jehovah's answers to your prayers.
How can you imitate the captive Israelite girl?
Young ones show faith by sharing the good news with schoolmates, teachers, and the
unbelieving family members.
You can also imitate the mother of Jesus, Mary.
How? Strengthen your faith and trust in Jehovah.
Carefully examine the scriptures and meditate on them.
How can you imitate the Phoenician woman?
Recognize whom Jehovah is using to do his will and associate yourself with them?
How can you imitate Mary, the sister of Lazarus?
Build faith by considering all that God's word says about His wonderful promises.
The Bible says, Mary sat down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what He was saying.
How can you imitate sister's ishi and the tomb?
Let the power of God's word motivate you to endure faithfully.
When we clearly perceive the great cloud of witnesses surrounding us,
we can run with endurance the race that is set before us as Hebrews 12.
Verse 1 encourages us to do.
Like these faithful women, we can all be included in Jehovah's book of remembrance,
as mentioned at Malachi 3.16 and inherit everlasting blessings.